# ChatGPT Response

{"answer": "", "cits": [{"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/37563872/", "cit": "[1] Yu Z et al. (2024). \"GV-971 attenuates alpha-Synuclein aggregation and related pathology.\" CNS neuroscience & therapeutics, 30(2)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38444039/", "cit": "[2] Suzuki H et al. (2024). \"Mutant alpha-synuclein causes death of human cortical neurons via ERK1/2 and JNK activation.\" Molecular brain, 17(1)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38284431/", "cit": "[3] Kalinichenko LS et al. (2024). \"Sex-specific pleiotropic changes in emotional behavior and alcohol consumption in human alpha-synuclein A53T transgenic mice during early adulthood.\" Journal of neurochemistry, 168(3)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38615192/", "cit": "[4] Zhao X et al. (2024). \"Characteristic fingerprint spectrum of alpha-synuclein mutants on terahertz time-domain spectroscopy.\" Biophysical journal, 123(10)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38351057/", "cit": "[5] Keomanivong C et al. (2024). \"Mice Expressing A53T/A30P Mutant Alpha-Synuclein in Dopamine Neurons Do Not Display Behavioral Deficits.\" eNeuro, 11(2)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39606453/", "cit": "[6] Byrne MD et al. (2024). \"Templating of Monomeric Alpha-Synuclein Induces Inflammation and SNpc Dopamine Neuron Death in a Genetic Mouse Model of Synucleinopathy.\" Research square, ()"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38540341/", "cit": "[7] Chaklai A et al. (2024). \"Effects of Paraquat, Dextran Sulfate Sodium, and Irradiation on Behavioral and Cognitive Performance and the Gut Microbiome in A53T and A53T-L444P Mice.\" Genes, 15(3)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38496623/", "cit": "[8] Lee M et al. (2024). \"Soluble and insoluble lysates from the human A53T mutant alpha-synuclein transgenic mouse model induces alpha-synucleinopathy independent of injection site.\" Research square, ()"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38835931/", "cit": "[9] Kurepa J et al. (2024). \"A Plant Model of alpha-Synucleinopathy: Expression of alpha-Synuclein A53T Variant in Hairy Root Cultures Leads to Proteostatic Stress and Dysregulation of Iron Metabolism.\" Applied biosciences, 3(2)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38732162/", "cit": "[10] Gallagher E et al. (2024). \"Positron Emission Tomography with [(18)F]ROStrace Reveals Progressive Elevations in Oxidative Stress in a Mouse Model of Alpha-Synucleinopathy.\" International journal of molecular sciences, 25(9)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38986725/", "cit": "[11] Yamaguchi H et al. (2024). \"A rapidly progressive multiple system atrophy-cerebellar variant model presenting marked glial reactions with inflammation and spreading of alpha-synuclein oligomers and phosphorylated alpha-synuclein aggregates.\" Brain, behavior, and immunity, 121()"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39029776/", "cit": "[12] Krzisch M et al. (2024). \"The A53T Mutation in alpha-Synuclein Enhances Proinflammatory Activation in Human Microglia Upon Inflammatory Stimulus.\" Biological psychiatry, ()"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38255235/", "cit": "[13] Tran KKN et al. (2024). \"Levodopa Rescues Retinal Function in the Transgenic A53T Alpha-Synuclein Model of Parkinson's Disease.\" Biomedicines, 12(1)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38375508/", "cit": "[14] Swaidan NT et al. (2024). \"CCN3, POSTN, and PTHLH as potential key regulators of genomic integrity and cellular survival in iPSCs.\" Frontiers in molecular biosciences, 11()"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38581539/", "cit": "[15] Hui S et al. (2024). \"Mitophagy Upregulation Occurs Early in the Neurodegenerative Process Mediated by alpha-Synuclein.\" Molecular neurobiology, 61(11)"}], "rcv_cit_count": 2, "rcv_cits": [{"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV000526380/", "rcv": "RCV000526380", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.4, "rev_status": 1, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.4, "condition": "Lewy body dementia (and 1 more)"}, {"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV000015044/", "rcv": "RCV000015044", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.5, "rev_status": 0, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.5, "condition": "Autosomal dominant Parkinson disease 1"}], "status_answer_code": 0, "status_info_code": false, "cit_count": 4245, "conversation_uuid": "b9ab6767-0a93-4959-809b-2eebd8c1bade", "triggering_question_lambda": false, "answer_uuid": ""}
The genomic variant c.157G>A p.Ala53Thr, also known as rs104893877, is located on the SNCA gene, which encodes the protein alpha-synuclein. Alpha-synuclein is a presynaptic neuronal protein that plays a role in synaptic vesicle regulation and is implicated in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) and other synucleinopathies, such as dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The c.157G>A variant results in the substitution of alanine with threonine at position 53 of the alpha-synuclein protein (p.Ala53Thr), which has been associated with early-onset familial PD characterized by rapid progression and poor prognosis [4].Studies have shown that transgenic mice overexpressing the human A53T mutant alpha-synuclein under the control of the prion protein promoter exhibit phenotypes that serve as a model for PD [1]. In vitro and ex vivo assessments have demonstrated that the A53T mutation increases the aggregation propensity of alpha-synuclein, which is a key pathogenic factor in synucleinopathies [2]. Moreover, the presence of the A53T mutation in cortical neurons derived from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) of PD patients has been linked to increased alpha-synuclein-positive aggregates, shorter neurites, and time-dependent vulnerability, highlighting the mutation's role in the molecular pathogenesis of cognitive decline observed in synucleinopathies [2].The A53T variant has also been studied in the context of behavioral phenotypes, where it was found not to alter affective and alcohol-drinking behaviors in female transgenic mice but was associated with reduced alcohol consumption and increased anxiety- and depression-like behaviors in male mice [3]. This suggests that the A53T mutation may have sex-specific effects on behavior that precede the onset of PD-related alpha-synuclein accumulation.In addition to behavioral studies, the A53T variant has been the subject of methodological advancements, such as the development of a novel label-free detection method using transmission terahertz time-domain spectroscopy, which can distinguish between wild-type and mutant alpha-synuclein variants, including A53T [4]. This technique has potential implications for the differential diagnosis of PD subtypes.Despite the development of various preclinical models, the replication of findings related to the A53T mutation has been challenging. For instance, a study reported a lack of behavioral deficits and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence in hemizygous transgenic mice expressing A53T/A30P mutant alpha-synuclein, underscoring the need for careful validation of synucleinopathy models [5].Intriguingly, the A53T variant has been shown to potentiate the pathological misfolding of wild-type alpha-synuclein, suggesting a mechanism by which genetic mutations could contribute to the spread of PD pathology [6]. Furthermore, environmental factors and genetic mutations, such as the A53T variant, have been studied for their effects on the gut microbiome and subsequent behavioral and cognitive impacts, indicating that the gut-brain axis may be an important mediator in the manifestation of PD-related phenotypes [7].In summary, the c.157G>A p.Ala53Thr rs104893877 variant on the SNCA gene is a missense mutation that has been associated with early-onset familial PD and is implicated in the pathogenesis of synucleinopathies. The variant affects the protein's aggregation propensity and has been linked to cognitive and behavioral phenotypes, as well as potential sex-specific effects. The variant's impact on the gut microbiome and its potential role in the spread of PD pathology highlight the complexity of its effects on neurodegeneration. ClinVar has reported this variant as pathogenic based on two independent submissions.