# ChatGPT Response

{"answer": "", "cits": [{"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/38710625/", "cit": "[1] Wakabayashi T et al. (2024). \"Current Diagnosis and Management of Familial Hypobetalipoproteinemia 1.\" Journal of atherosclerosis and thrombosis, 31(7)"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30665703/", "cit": "[2] Wright CF et al. (2019). \"Assessing the Pathogenicity, Penetrance, and Expressivity of Putative Disease-Causing Variants in a Population Setting.\" American journal of human genetics, 104(2) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/30076208/", "cit": "[3] Zhou Y et al. (2018). \"Global genetic diversity of human apolipoproteins and effects on cardiovascular disease risk.\" Journal of lipid research, 59(10) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26147798/", "cit": "[4] Ferrarini A et al. (2015). \"The Use of Non-Variant Sites to Improve the Clinical Assessment of Whole-Genome Sequence Data.\" PloS one, 10(7) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26269718/", "cit": "[5] Patwardhan A et al. (2015). \"Achieving high-sensitivity for clinical applications using augmented exome sequencing.\" Genome medicine, 7(1) [SUPP]"}, {"pmid": "https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27460824/", "cit": "[6] Garofalo A et al. (2016). \"The impact of tumor profiling approaches and genomic data strategies for cancer precision medicine.\" Genome medicine, 8(1) [SUPP]"}], "rcv_cit_count": 1, "rcv_cits": [{"link": "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/clinvar/RCV000019474/", "rcv": "RCV000019474", "clinv_table": [{"type": "germline", "weight": 0.5, "rev_status": 0, "clin_sig": "Pathogenic", "clin_sig_map": "P"}], "min_weights": 0.5, "condition": "Familial hypobetalipoproteinemia"}], "status_answer_code": 0, "status_info_code": false, "cit_count": 6, "conversation_uuid": "9e1d64cb-7867-4a1f-ab14-10e9ce847e7b", "triggering_question_lambda": false, "answer_uuid": ""}
The genomic variant c.12181del p.Glu4061ArgfsTer7 rs121918385 is a frameshift mutation located in the APOB gene. This mutation leads to the deletion of a single nucleotide, which results in a shift in the reading frame of the gene and introduces a premature termination codon seven amino acids downstream from the mutation site. The presence of this premature stop codon is expected to result in a truncated apoB protein, which is likely to be non-functional or have impaired function [1].The APOB gene encodes apolipoprotein B, which is a critical component of lipoprotein particles. Apolipoprotein B exists in two main isoforms: apoB-100 and apoB-48. ApoB-100 is synthesized in the liver and is an essential component of very-low-density lipoproteins (VLDLs), intermediate-density lipoproteins (IDLs), and low-density lipoproteins (LDLs). It plays a pivotal role in lipid transport and metabolism, serving as a ligand for LDL receptors and thus facilitating the uptake of cholesterol into cells. The apoB-48 isoform is produced in the intestines and is involved in the assembly and secretion of chylomicrons, which are responsible for the transport of dietary lipids from the intestines to other tissues in the body [1].Given the essential role of apoB in lipid metabolism, mutations in the APOB gene, such as the c.12181del variant, can have significant clinical implications. The truncated protein resulting from this frameshift mutation may lead to a disruption in the normal assembly and function of lipoprotein particles, potentially causing lipid metabolism disorders. The variant has been submitted to ClinVar and classified as pathogenic, indicating that it has been associated with disease phenotypes in at least one submission to this database. The pathogenicity of this variant underscores the importance of genetic screening and counseling for individuals who may carry this mutation, particularly in the context of lipid metabolism disorders.